# The Final Countdown

The Qublan army approaches Ur'gench from the mountains and the plains. Both have suffered loses but they continue their march. Will this be the final countdown for our heroes? Will it lead to glory or only death?

## The Story

### Exiting Buildhame

Having successfully detonating the teleportation circle and killing both the `Prince of Water` and the daimio, the heroes stand with the dwarves near the front door when there is a mighty crash against the front door. Everyone is at the ready, waiting for at attempt to knock down the doors and break them open, but it doesn't come. Instead, it starts to feel hotter. Then the metal on the door starts to glow. First `Pylia` then the other mages start creating water to try and cool it. `Faleor` releases `Pawtrick` and they ready for a fight with `Belsaran`. It reaches its peak then starts to cool without any more action, that is strange. Once it cools further `Belsaran` realizes that the metal is likely fused together on the other side.  

The heroes feel a need to get eyes on what is going on out there. The army was preparing to leave, but they are worried what if this was a distraction to an attempt to get in elsewhere after the destruction caused. `Belsaran` volunteers to use his ability to dimension door outside, high above, and then feather fall to do some recon. He can then jump back after he has time to survey the area, or if he is spotted. He gets outfitted with a spyglass and buffed with **hide from animals** and **invisibility**, then makes the jump. The heroes consult `Grumin Stonefist` to be ready with **dimensional anchor**, in case `Belsaran` is seen to prevent anyone else from trying to teleport inside. `Belsaran` is able to see the army is already well underway. There are bodies left behind from the explosion and a pit where the circle used to be. However, standing several hundred feet back from the doors is the `Prince of Fire` himself, watching a mage cast a large circle, 100 feet in diameter out from the door. In the center is a large crate with purple flames on top. After returning and reporting what he saw, the heroes believe it is a trap. If they could disrupt the mage they could stop the trap from being complete. The heroes send a runner for `Ukulda Foekiller` to **stoneshape** and opening but by the time she is found everyone is gone, including the crate. She goes to consult the council. Upon trying to detect the trap area, `Pylia` realizes she cannot sense it, nor the latent magic that should still be there from the teleportation that occurred. This is concerning and unexpected, as is `Belsaran`'s "old wound" in his hand tingles to the magic. While the heroes contemplate this `Belsaran` shares his story with `Mel`. `Ukulda` returns and relays that this is a priority for the council and that they will attempt a ritual tomorrow to dispel the magic of the trap, once everyone has had time to rest and regain the necessary spells.

In the morning, both adventuring parties, most of the council, and several guards exit by the rear entrance to investigate and hopefully disarm the trap. This is the first glimpse many have had of the destruction of the explosion. `Belsaran` leads the council to the area of the trap he saw being cast. After further pondering the quandary of hiding from detect magic, `Faleor` suggests **undetectable trap** or **magic aura** could be the cause. The casters plan to work their way up, starting with a low level **dispel magic** that works and suddenly the magic aura has returned. They find 4 different auras: abjuration, evocation, conjuration, and illusion.  They try a level 2 **dispel magic** and suddenly the box pops back into vision, likely hidden by an extended **invisibility** spell. They see a darkwood box, but no flames like `Belsaran` saw. 

As debate to what to try next continues slowly along, `Faleor` keeps watch. He sees a roc in the distance, but it stays very high up and a glint catches his eye. Borrowing `Mel`'s spyglass, he sees that the hobgoblin is observing from the howda with a spyglass of his own.  

The council determines they thing the next spell is the trap itself. As they up the power of their dispel they notice the aura disappear, but it felt off. Three rounds later, the magic returns. This is the behavior of a magical item, not a spell. The decision is made they need to open the box. `Pylia` attemps to open it with a _chime of opening_ while it is dispelled, but this is unsuccessful. They also realize the box has **dispel magic**, which may be the purpose of the trap but to what end? It makes no sense. `Faleor` suggests to destroy the box while it is suppressed and offers to fill it full of arrows from a distance. The council is worried about knocking the box over and wants to send people in. `Valdrin` offers to run in with `Belsaran` to physically break it if they can keep the magic held back. The finally decide on a dispel, followed by one arrow to ensure it is safe, then send in the muscles. When `Belsaran` approaches, he feels a greater tingle in his hand. One flurry of blows later, the box is only held together by `Valdrin` and the dispel does not return. What is left behind is a two foot sphere of glowing fire, radiating great heat. `Belsaran` senses planar energy from the sphere with his hand.  

`Kotheg Ironshaper`, the trader-prince from the council, steps tentatively forward. The council determines it is in fact lava within the sphere. They believe it to be a **resilient sphere** holding in, but if the supply from within is infinite, the lava could flood the city, destroy and crops and flow into the valley below. With the sphere drop, there is potential if it is in fact a portal for lava to spew out. Lava can't really be stopped and needs to cool and harden in place. However the sphere may not be able to be moved because if it is a planar gate inside, it would be locked in place. With a casting of **detect magic** they all realize the magic on the sphere is fading and will run out long before the stronger magic inside.

The council and adventurers scramble to make a plan. They discuss using **stone shape** to try and direct some of the initial lava away and fill troughs with water. The council questions `Belsaran`'s power until he is forced to discuss his planar abilities. They realize this is a revenge trap. When the dwarves inevitably repaired and opened the front door, this trap would set off, putting lava everywhere. There would not be enough time to close the doors before the lava would start flooding the city. They put their plan into action: the council **stone shape** walls and channels, `Faleor` helps **create water**, `Pylia` gives **resistance** and **guidance** to `Belsaran`, the council gives him a _potion of fire resistance_ while `Mel` sings a song of `Belsaran` Portal Powers<sup>TM</sup> to **inspire greatness** as well as casting **fly**. `Eiya` grants him **false life** for additional temporary hit points.

Everyone steps back and waits. `Grumin Stonefist` casts a final **dispel magic** on the sphere and the ball of lava falls to the ground. A stone disk rockets up into the air, with laval spraying everywhere like an unattended firehose. It's like the force of a river through a small hole. It is more than should be coming out of that size. An errant stream of lava heads in the direction of those watching `Belsaran`. `Faleor` and `Pylia` are able to dive out of the way, but a dwarven guard isn't so lucky.  

`Belasaran` makes a move for the disk, avoiding a spray but the cast off droplets land on his skin. Luckily, the potion helps him shrug off any damage. He attempts to fly around behind, taking a blow from the lava. He decides to go straight for it now, throwing caution to the wind. He catches a face full of lava or his efforts, but misses the disk. The lava spurts start heading towards the grove now. `Belsaran` is able to regroup and chase it down, grabbing the disk. While it shoots away from him, his fingers are at the mercy of a stream of lava to hold on tightly. He feels the essence of fire in his hand. This is not energy compatible with his power, but believes he can siphon it away. He draws in some energy, but it is like pulling fire into his very soul. He realizes if he were to draw all the energy in, it would burn him from the inside out. `Belsaran` attempts to redirect the energy into healing, but it heals only a fraction of the damage he takes from drawing the energy in.

Seeing the damage her friend is taking, `Pylia` can sit idly by no longer. He chugs a _potion of fire resistance_ and charges in in order to get close enough to heal him, however without the ability to fly, she's forces to go through the lava. Attempting a new redirection of energy, `Belsaran` draws in energy from the portal and redirects it into spewing fire from his mouth into the air. While he is still damage, he feels it pull a much greater amount of energy from the portal. By now, `Pylia` is beneath the fire breathing `Belsaran` and burst healing twice, to help steady `Belsaran`. Renewed, he again channels energy in and out as fire, causing the portal to snap shut!

What is left around is a hellscape, but the lava is not too deep. The walls effectively channeled about 705 of the laval on that side, though lava was thrown all about. It luckily did not get deep enough to really flow anywhere beyond. We see the roc flying away from its high circling pattern but also the face of `Mel`, overjoyed with the song he will write to immortalize what happened here.

Now that the trap is stopped, the party goes to look at what was done to the front door. It is apparent that the metal was heated until it was malleable, then reshaped to mold the two sides together. However, what is surpsising is _how_ it was molded together. There are large hand prints smearing the metal together! Thankfully is method is likely weak and can easily be broken to get the doors functioning again.



[back to the adventures](/adventures/)  


## Session Notes

[May 24, 2023 - Easy Bake Mountain Oven](2023/2023-05-24-easy-bake-mountain-oven.md)  
We rejoin our main party in Buildhame, where they have blown the teleportation circle, dealing a huge blow to the army. What comes next? Fight? Return to Ur'gench?

[June 1, 2023 - I Lava You](2023/2023-06-01-i-lava-you.md)  
The heroes plan to help attempt disarm the trap outside of Buildhame with the council. But what does the trap hold within?  

[June 15, 2023 - It's not the Fall that Kills You](2023/2023-06-15-its-not-the-fall-that-kills-you.md)  
Having disarmed the trap (mostly) successfully, the time comes to return to Ur'gench, but the dwarves hear approaching large footsteps.  

[back to the adventures](/adventures/)  
